[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> For me, there's a few
things that are non-negotiable.
I know that if
they are not a part
of my regular daily
activity that I'm going
to be falling off the wagon.
And I'm not going to
be feeling so good.
One of those things
is meditation.
It is so practical, so
transformative, so powerful.
And there is so much science
behind why it transforms us
physiologically,
psychologically, emotionally.
I mean I think there's hundreds
and hundreds of peer reviewed
research papers that
people can go and Google.
And it's phenomenal.
So meditation for
me twice a day.
Also, exercise.
I think it's one of the
most underrated ways
to change your psychology,
and your physiology,
and your emotional well-being.
Any time that I find myself
really frustrated, or anytime
I find myself blocked,
I get into the gym.
Sometimes it's
taking a spin class.
taking a dance class.
Sometimes it's
just taking a walk.
But getting out of my head
and getting into my body again
opens up this enormous channel
of wisdom that I cannot access
any other way.
So movement at least 15,
20 minutes if not an hour
a day, some type of intensity--
that for me keeps me sane.
And of course, it's about
what we put in our bodies.
It's about the food that we eat.
You know, I'm Italian American.
I grew up in New Jersey.
I love pasta like
the next person.
Like you have no idea.
But I have discovered through
lots of trial and error
when I eat certain foods,
do I feel alert or not?
Do I feel cranky?
Do I get brain fog-- and have
begun to create a nutritional
lifestyle for myself
where I'm eating
to fuel my emotional
well-being, and my intelligence,
and my cognition rather than my
historical past and, you know,
what those cravings are.
Intuition is just
our internal wisdom.
It's this natural knowing
that each of us have
that oftentimes we're
never listening to.
One of the benefits that I
had was my mom trained me ever
since I was little to listen to
the still small voice inside.
And she said you
will always know
the right move to make if you
tap inside and you listen.
There will always be an answer.
So I heard this message
over and over again.
So whenever in my adult life
I'm wondering which way to go,
I get quiet.
And I pay attention to what's
happening on the inside,
whether it's I actually hear
a voice or one of the most
useful tests for me
is I do something
and I figure out whether or not
I feel expansive or contracted.
So here's what I mean.
A lot of times people
will ask me, well, Marie,
how do I know the difference
between fear and intuition?
Like is this something
that I should do
and maybe I'm just
feeling butterflies,
or is this like my
intuition saying, no,
don't do that, this is bad?
So here's what you need to do.
You need to imagine yourself
moving ahead with whatever
you're considering.
Start to tap in on a
very subtle level and see
do you feel yourself expansive,
like everything is either
moving forward, or getting
brighter or lighter,
or, on a very subtle level,
is everything contracting,
meaning it feels heavy.
You feel a subtle
sense of dread.
Now again, we're talking
microscopic levels.
But if you just ask
yourself that question
how do I feel imagining
moving ahead with this,
and you pay enough
attention, you
will either feel yourself
pulling back or moving forward.
And nine times out
of 10, that's going
to give you the best answer.
So obviously, if
it feels contracted
or it feels heavy
or dread, that's
your intuition
telling you don't go.
If it still feels
scary and you're
like I don't know
if I can do this
but everything feels like
it's coming alive, do it.
That's a yes.
And you know, something
can be really uncertain.
Something that you might not be
able to decide whether or not
you know I don't know if
I'll be able to do this.
I don't know if I'm
good enough to do this
but it still feels
really fun, that's
a clear sign to go for it.
There's real
opportunity for growth.
And you know, one
of the beliefs that
drives my whole life is
everything is figureoutable.
You know, if there's
something that you want to do,
there's something that
you want to experience,
you want to change,
you can absolutely
figure it out.
You don't have to
have all of the hows.
You don't have to have
all of the information.
You don't even have to know if
it'll actually turn out right.
But you have to take
that first step.
And I think one of the
other things that can really
help us is an idea that
clarity comes from engagement,
not thought.
So if you have an
inkling that you
might want to pursue
a particular career,
or maybe start a business,
or try a new path,
you don't have to quit your
job and just go for it.
See if there's a small way that
you can test or experiment.
Can you take a class?
Can you volunteer for a day?
Can you go engage in whatever
that possibility is so that you
can feel from your body and from
the world does this feel right.
Is this exciting?
Do I want to keep going?
Or was this just
an idea that I'm
really glad that I did this
day or I did this experiment,
but, you know what, I don't
want to change my whole life.
I think so many times
we can sit on a couch
and think about how
we want our life
to possibly change, or imagine
starting that business,
or imagine moving to that
place without realizing
that if we can just
engage in some small way,
we'll get the information.
We'll feel whether or
not we should move ahead.
And that will inform
our next step.
For some of us, we have a lot of
responsibilities in our lives.
We have people that
are depending on us.
We have parents that
we're taking care of.
We have children.
We have pets.
We have people that depend
on us for their well-being.
So the idea of just uprooting
everything and making
a huge change might
not be practical.
It might not be responsible.
It might create
more stress that's
not actually conducive to the
change that you want to make.
So if that's the
case, that doesn't
mean that you can't
change your life.
That just means that you
have to be more creative.
You have to find a way to
engage, and experiment,
and test things, whether
it's late at night,
early in the mornings,
on the weekends.
And then you can start
to create change.
Some of us are
built differently.
Some of us do need
to burn the bridges.
Some of us need
to say that's it.
I'm changing
everything right now.
I think the point
is there's not one
right way, that if you are that
person who just needs to do it
all in one fell swoop and that
feels most exciting to you,
rock on.
But if you're someone who's
a little more risk averse
and you want to test
things out, don't
think that you're
not going to have
a huge transformation because
you take small steps over time.
And within a year, three
years, five years, or 10 years,
you can have a completely
different existence
and look back and
go, thank goodness
I took that first step.
[MUSIC PLAYING]